What if I instead of the other text,
I add here a text field,
so the user can type something, okay?
It has two mandatory properties,
value, and on value change.
So what I want is to say hello,
and the name of the user and
the user will type his or her name.
So for
that they can create the variable for
the name, okay, this make sense.
And by the way you have this
example now we can start
talking about the companion website.
And here you have the slides everything
that we are going to build and
creating the project and basic concepts.
We have already seen this.
Here you have one code to try.
Okay, this is similar to what I'm going to
write right now just to give you an idea
that everything that I'm
going to do from now on,
it's available here in step by step.
So What I need is to create that name,
okay?
So I want to take the name on value
change, it's a lambda expression.
So I will open curly braces and
I will say name= it, remember it.
I can also do it in your line if you want
no need to okay but then you have the it.
So basically every time
the text is changing
the text field it's executing
that on value change.
And I'm changing the variable
the thing is that
composable as I mentioned before
are by default read only,
so this is not gonna work,
it's not gonna change.
So, also here instead of get recompose
I can use, $name makes sense.
But this is not gonna work to make
it work, the same happens on react.
The same happens in Angular components or
imbue JS components.
So I need to trigger
a change within a state and
we can do that but in this case
we need to call mutablestateof.
In this case we are setting that is going
to be the state of these composable.
So that means that if the variable changes
the state of the composable changes,
and it's going to trigger a rerender,
make sense?
It gave me an error at this point,
because it's first now there
is a type issue because
now we should be changing
the value of the state.
The same here probably like so because
now name is not a string it's immutable
the state of a string there is another
class in Kotlin that has a value inside.
And also he says saying, hey,
every time we are what is
rerendering the function
executing the function again.
So if we go into rerender the function, we
are starting with an empty string again,
which is a problem.
Does it make sense?
So if I create variables
here any variable, and
then I'm changing the variable
during the state of the app.
If for some reason first composure
will need to be composed again, or
rendered again,
it's going to create the variables again.
So it's losing its state
doesn't make sense.
So that's why here it says if you
read the error that we need to
do using retrieve remember it
says creating a state object
during composition without using
remember what is remember.
Remember, it's just a call
where we can ask the framework
to remember that value.
Remember will actually act like it's
similar to memo in other frameworks.
It will remember that variable on
the next execution is not going to create
the variable again,
if you remember the previous value.
So I know it sounds weird.
But now first, can we try this here?
It's difficult to type.
Well, first then name
it hello mutable state.
Let me get rid of this ID exception.
Because the name if the value is not
a string anymore, it's an estate.
And because now is an expression
I need to use $ sign code block,
because it's not so
simple as a viable name, okay?
Build and refresh.
It says hello nothing.
The thing is that I cannot type here.
Okay because it's a preview.
I can turn on the preview has
a way to turn on interactivity.
It's called dragon start interactive mode.
But is it for gestures is not for click
for swipe for scroll is not gonna work for
typing so, okay, so
it's not letting me type in here.
So I need to run it on the real
emulator to actually see if this works.
So I have a text field, and
I will say, I must start typing.
This is my full name Maximiliano and
you can see it's working.
While I'm typing, it's actually changing
live in the text, if you have experience
with react or similar frameworks
probably you are used to this pattern.
If you're new to this pattern,
it will take some time to
understand what's going on.
So we don't change the text in the text
composable we shaft change the state.
The state will make a new composition
of this function of this composable and
that will trigger a new rendering.
You have any question?
>> No.
Does it make sense?
Kind of yes.
>> If you had multiple variables in there,
they would each have their own remember?
>> That's a good question yeah, you can
have one object with several values inside
and one remember of like a beer object.
You can have several remembers and
several states.
You can remember states or
you gonna remember just plain values and
remember that value on
the next composed process.
So he's not going to
create another variable.
Another option is not going to
reinitialize that variable the next time
that function is being executed.
>> Can remember is ever
collide with each other?
>> If the objects that you
are remembering are not connected, no,
you shouldn't happen.
They're more advanced,
they're more remembers they're more
kind of remembers as well, okay?
So it gets more complicated but
for basic examples that works.